feat: v1 agent docs (#183)
deepgram/deepgram-docs: fern/docs/voice-agent-function-call-request.mdx

---
title: Function Call Request

> subtitle: Initiate a server-side or client-side function execution in a voice agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
subtitle: The event sent by the Deepgram Voice Agent to make a function call
```

Author: good catch will go with: 

> Client-side or server-side function call request sent by the server. 

Which is the same format as the function call response page now

slug: docs/voice-agent-function-call-request
---

<Markdown src="../snippets/voice-agent.mdx" />

# What is the `FunctionCallRequest` Message

The `FunctionCallRequest` message is used to initiate function calls in your Voice Agent. This message can trigger either a server-side function execution or request a client-side function execution, depending on the `client_side` property setting.

## Receiving `FunctionCallRequest`

> <Info>
>   If you leave the `client_side` property set to `false` you will be instructing your Agent to execute a server side function call.
> </Info>
> 
> If a function is client-side and the `client_side` property is set to `true` then the server will request to call the function by sending the client a `FunctionCallRequest` message. Upon receiving this message, the client should perform the requested function call and reply with a [Function Call Response](/docs/voice-agent-function-call-response) containing the function's output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Info>
  The `client_side` property is set by the server to indicate how the function should be handled.
</Info>

When the server sends a `FunctionCallRequest`, it includes the `client_side` property to tell the client whether the function should be handled locally or not.  
- If `client_side` is `false`, the server will handle the function using built-in tools.  
- If `client_side` is `true`, the client is expected to handle the function call and respond with a [Function Call Response](/docs/voice-agent-function-call-response) containing the result.
```

Reviewer: @jpvajda small change here as the other wording was a bit misleading about who sets the client_side property

<CodeGroup>
  ```json JSON
  {
    "type": "FunctionCallRequest",
    "functions": [
      {
        "id": "fc_12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef",
        "name": "check_order_status",
        "arguments": "{\"order_id\": \"ORD-123456\"}",
        "client_side": true
      }
    ]
  }
  ```
</CodeGroup>

## Conclusion

> When a function is client-side and the `client_side` property is set to `true`, the server will trigger the function call by sending a `FunctionCallRequest` message. The client is then responsible for executing the function and responding with a [Function Call Response](/docs/voice-agent-function-call-response) containing the function's result.
> 
> If you leave the `client_side` property set to `false` you will be instructing your Agent to execute a server side function call. In this case the server will execute the function call and respond with a [Function Call Response](/docs/voice-agent-function-call-response) containing the function's result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the server sends a `FunctionCallRequest`, it includes the `client_side` property to indicate how the function should be handled:

* If `client_side` is `true`, the client is expected to execute the function and respond with a [[Function Call Response](https://github.com/docs/voice-agent-function-call-response)](/docs/voice-agent-function-call-response) containing the result.
* If `client_side` is `false`, the server will handle the function internally and reply with the result using a [[Function Call Response](https://github.com/docs/voice-agent-function-call-response)](/docs/voice-agent-function-call-response).
```

---
title: Function Call Request

> subtitle: Client-side or server-side function call request sent by the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
subtitle: Client-side or server-side function call request sent by the server
```
